All right, probably the like
the most popular way to host a Gatsby website,
even though literally you can deploy it anywhere,
is Netlify
because Netlify will of course take care
of making your website fast to load
and to host it and all that stuff.
But they also do the whole build thing for you.
And it can be triggered either when something,
some data in sanity changes,
or it can be triggered when like your Git repo changes,
which is pretty cool.
So go to netlify.com and create an account.
And then what we'll do is when you have your dashboard,
you click on a new site from Git
and you connect it to whatever your Git provider is.
So mine is going to be Github.
And now what I need to actually do
is to put my website on Github.
So you might already have yours on a Github repo
and it doesn't matter, the folder structure,
anything like that.
Mine is not currently on Github,
so I'm going to go ahead and do that.
You can either put just the Gatsby's folder on Git
or, and this is probably more likely,
is you want to put both the sanity backend
and the Gatsby frontend in one Git repo.
Well, I shouldn't say more likely
because there's lots of different use cases
if you want to have a backend and a frontend,
but because
I have put both of them into the starter files
in the same repo,
I'm going to put them both into one repo on
my Git.
So the way that you do is you git init
and that's going to create a new Git repo.
We'll make sure that we have a git ignore.
So I'm gonna open this up in my VS code,
and I'm gonna create a new file called .gitignore.
And I'm just going to take the contents
of the current starter file.
So github.com/wesbos/master-gatsby
and take a look at the git ignore here
and edit it.
Copy everything, put it in there.
This is just a general generic git ignore file
that will cover most of your bases.
So we've got that there.
Then what we want to do is to say, git status,
take a look at everything we've got.
We'll git add everything.
So git add everything.
Oh, no, git add -a
and git commit
m
or -m.
We'll say everything.
Okay, good.
Then we have to hook it up to an actual Github repo.
So go to github.com.
Gotta create a new repo.
We'll call it Slick's Slices.
And you obviously call it your own thing.
Wes Bos
Slick's slices example.
You can make it public or private.
Go ahead and create the repo.
Then I'm going to, I already did all the init, add, commit,
and then I'm going to add the origin.
And then I'm going to push
up to Github.
While that's uploading, I'll go back to my Netlify here.
And when you connect it to Github,
you can either allow it to have access
to all of your repos, or you can do it
one by one.
In our case, I'm not going to give
a random company, or they're not a random company,
I certainly trust them,
but I'm not going to give some company access to everything,
every single line of code that I've written,
no matter how much trust I have in them.
So we go to this one right here
and you want to click on your actual username,
gonna go ahead and log in.
And then here we go, select a repository.
So these are all different websites that I've used
on for Gatsby.
And I gotta add a new one.
So we'll call it Slick's Slices.
There we go, add it, save it, good.
And then it should be available, here we go.
And the branch to deploy is going to be master.
The build command
is npm run build,
and then the publish directory is
going to be, I believe, gatsby/public.
And then we also need some advanced settings.
Doesn't look like you can do that just yet.
So we'll go ahead and deploy that.
Now this is not gonna work just yet.
And the reason behind that is because
it's going to look in here for your Gatsby website.
So we need to tell it that our Gatsby website
lives inside of the Gatsby directory.
So it doesn't look
like we could do that when we set it up.
But now let's go back to site settings
and there should be a setting around here somewhere.
I believe it's under build and deploy.
Here we go.
Edit settings,
repository base directory.
Okay, the directory to change before we start the build.
This is where we'll look for package json
and the NRC et cetera, et cetera.
So it's Gatsby, good.
And then the publish directory is
public.
And I believe that's what we want,
so let's go ahead and save it.
We'll go back to our overview
and we can go ahead and trigger a new deploy.
So production deploys, trigger deploy.
If you're ever having troubles with your deploy,
always choose the clear cache and deploy site.
And that, the deploy site will just reuse
any like cached images and things like that that we want.
So let's just clear cache in this case.
And you can sort of watch what's happening.
So it's kind of cool because it's doing what we did here
when we ran npm run build,
but it's doing it on Netlify's servers.
And you can see that it's
installing Node, npm installing all of our dependencies.
One thing I think we'll probably run into
is the fact that our ENV file did not make it.
And that's good because you should never have
your secrets, which is .env, show up publicly
on GitHub or even private, if it's a private repo.
You don't necessarily want your passwords
and everything like that.
So what we'll have to do
while we wait for this to build the first time,
is to go back
to our settings,
deploy settings here
and it's somewhere in here,
environment,
environmental variables.
So we'll go ahead and edit these.
And you can say,
let's just go ahead and start pasting them over.
Gatsby page size.
Whoops.
Two.
Gatsby hot loader,
actually, that one doesn't matter
because that's only for development.
We don't need that one.
The mail host, so I'm going to leave this
as the ethereal email,
but you would likely go to something like Postmark
and sign up for a Postmark account
and use this in production
and then paste in your actual credentials
that Postmark gives you
or any transactional email service.
It doesn't really matter,
I'm just a fan of Postmark myself.
Gatsby serverless base.
So this is kind of important.
This is no longer going to be localhost:8888.
It is now going to just be
in our case, you can just use a relative path like that.
And then finally Gatsby GraphQL endpoint,
that will stay the same as well
because that's pointing directly to our sanity server.
Give that a save.
Then we'll go back to our deploys
and see how that one is doing.
It's still building, but I don't believe,
I don't know, it seems to be,
it seems to be running.
Maybe just because we put those,
put that data in before it needed it.
So maybe we did make it in time.
If it didn't, if it ends up not running,
you can go ahead and just cancel the deploy and rerun it.
But I'm going to see if this will run myself.
I should probably take the console log out (laughs)
for Gatsby website.
Let me do that while we wait.
Console.log.
That,
that.
Gatsby config.
All right, that looks like we got everything out.
I believe if you have console logs
in your other ones as well,
yeah if you've got console logs in any of your
files like this, this slice masters
and
pizza, all of that data.
If you've got any of the console logs
in your actual React files
that will show up in your terminal
because it is literally running the React file for you.
There we go, looks like the Netlify build is complete.
It worked.
Then it'll give you this hilarious URL,
which you can go and visit your website
and boom, looks like it is working.
The only thing that won't work is these ones.
And tell me why,
the reason is because we probably have a cores issue,
there we go.
We've got a cores issue when fetching data
from our sanity,
because sanity is now saying no, no, no, no, no.
I've never heard of this domain name.
I'm not gonna allow that.
So we can go ahead and fix that.
Going going sanity.io.
Log in.
Go to our Slick's Slices,
settings, API.
And you can add the API origins here
and we will
take that domain name.
So in our case, you can either just put
the whole domain name
or you could do *.netlify.app
Or if you choose to use a custom domain with Netlify,
you can do that as well.
So in our case, I'll just put that.
I don't think we actually need
allow credentials to be turned on
because we're not doing any authentication,
we're just pulling data
at the origin.
Now, when I refresh this page, that data should show up.
Looks like we've got one more issue where it's
going to /undefined for that data.
I believe that is probably because
that is trying to grab the Gatsby GraphQL endpoint.
Maybe that didn't work initially.
So we'll just go ahead and rebuild it one more time.
I could edit this out and make it look perfect,
but this is honestly my experience in deploying a website
is, oh, I forgot to add that origin.
Oh, let me, let me rebuild it again, one more time.
And after two or three times,
you got all the bugs ironed out.
So I'm gonna just take you along the ride for me,
trying to figure it out.
So go to deploys,
go ahead and rerun it.
And then go grab a coffee
and we'll come back when this sucker is fully deployed.
All right after a couple of minutes, it deployed again.
So I'm going to go back to,
it's the same URL every single time.
So you don't have to worry about
going to the URL again,
just refresh the one if you've got it open.
And they're fetching data, and there we go.
Now that, that data.
So again, the reason why that wasn't pulling initially
is because the environmental variables,
the GraphQL endpoint, I put that in too late.
And by the time it had built, this was undefined.
So it was trying to hit undefined for URL.
And then if you rerun the build
once those environmental variables have been inputted
into your Netlify, then everything is looking peachy.
So here's our website.
It looks like things are working.
Let's just try click around to it.
There's our different pizzas.
Look around at one of the pizzas.
Go to our slice masters, there they are.
All of our pagination works just good.
And our order form
looks like it is working as well.
So that is how you deploy that thing to Netlify.
Other things that Netlify has
is analytics is only on the paid.
I have a paid account.
So if you want analytics, they will show up.
But it's kind of cool
because you don't have to put Google Analytics
into your website
and it will still pull analytics from the server side.
What other things,
all of our functions are automatically deployed.
See, look.
There's our place order.
You can also see any console logs from your thing.
So if you're having any errors and what not,
that will sort of log itself in there.
And then of course you can put your own custom domain name
on your site by going to site settings,
domain management.
And then here you can option, you can change the name of it.
So it's not this really long URL.
You could just say slicksslices.netlify.app.
And you can also add a custom domain name
if you've got a .com or .org or you name it.
Last thing we need to do
is obviously if we make a change to one of our websites,
so if I go to my index.js
and I say hot slices and add an exclamation mark
and I were to push that.
So now there's a change, git status,
we see there's a change to our index.js.
I'll git add all,
git commit, change.
Oh, and git push.
And if we go over to our deploys here,
it should then trigger a change in our Netlify.
And it'll rebuild and redeploy the entire website for us.
See look at that, there's a change.
It's going to build.
After a couple of minutes, it will actually be deployed.
The other thing we need to know is if we go
to our sanity dashboard,
click right here,
and we make a change to one of the pizzas.
So let's, let's find one of our pizzas.
Here comes truffle, let's edit that pizza.
I'll add an exclamation mark to the end
and go ahead and publish it.
And we go to that pizza.
Pizzas,
here comes truffle.
It's not updated.
Well, like how do you get that?
Do you have to like edit a file and redeploy it?
Well, no, you can set up a web hook in sanity
so that sanity will push
every single time that you have it.
So I've got just the docs on how to do that right here.
So it looks like what we need to do
is to go to settings, build and deploy.
So settings,
build and deploy.
Go to continuous deployment,
go down to build hooks.
And we'll click add a build hook.
I'll call that
rebuild
from
sanity.
Go ahead and save it.
It's gonna give us this URL here.
And every single time you hit this URL with a post request,
it's gonna rebuild your website.
So we can actually set that up in sanity
to do it for us.
So we'll go back to our terminal here,
go to our sanity tab and say, sanity hook create.
We'll call it a Netlify deploy
and its production.
The hook URL is what we just copied there.
And we're up and running.
So now I believe
we should be able to go and edit one of our pizzas.
Let's do two exclamation marks on here comes truffle.
Go back to our deploys of Netlify.
There we go, deploy triggered, rebuilding from sanity.
That's because we changed our data.
Once it's done,
that will be redeployed to our actual website.
So that's pretty easy, pretty slick
once you get it up and running,
especially once you've done six or seven of these websites.
It's a pretty neat way
to go ahead and deploy your application.